README.md, before:

# Pskel

A skeleton project for quickly setting up an environment to develop extensions for PHP.

### How to use

1. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and Docker Desktop (or an alternative engine).
2. Install the [Remote Container](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) extension in VSCode.
3. Open the directory and open it with the `Remote Container` extension.
4. (Optional) Replace the word "skeleton" in each file appropriately.

### Q&A

#### Can I set up an environment using MySQL, Redis, etc.?

Yes. Pskel comes pre-setup with MySQL as a example. If you want to add something, you can easily do so by editing the `compose.yaml`.

#### Can I use a debug version of PHP?

A debug build of PHP is included in advance. Debug builds using GCC and Clang are available, and Valgrind support is enabled. With the Clang build, you can also use MemorySanitizer.

They each have the following binary prefixes. The build toolchains are the same.

- `debug-php`
- `gcc-valgrind-php`
- `clang-msan-php`
- `clang-asan-php`
- `clang-ubsan-php`

For example, the method to test the extension using GCC + Valgrind is as follows:

```
# gcc-valgrind-phpize
# ./configure --with-php-config=$(which gcc-valgrind-php-config)
# TEST_PHP_ARGS="-q -m --show-diff" make -j$(nproc) test
```

#### Can I debug using gdb?

Yes. Build using the debug version of PHP and run as follows:

```
# gdb --args gcc-valgrind-php -dextension=./modules/your_extension_name.so example.php
```

#### Can I develop using something other than Visual Studio Code?

While it's not recommended, it's possible. You can using Docker Compose (or a alternative engine).

### License

PHP License 3.01

Commit message:

windows is optional, cleanup structure and add initialize scripts

README.md, after:

# Pskel

A skeleton project for quickly setting up an environment to develop extensions for PHP.

### How to use

1. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and Docker Desktop (or an alternative engine).
1. Install the [Remote Container](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) extension in VSCode.
1. Open the directory and open it with the `Remote Container` extension.
1. Run `pskel_init_extension` command.
2. Run `pskel_test` command for testing.

### Q&A

#### Can I set up an environment using MySQL, Redis, etc.?

Yes. Pskel comes pre-setup with MySQL as a example. If you want to add something, you can easily do so by editing the `compose.yaml`.

#### Can I use a debug version of PHP?

A debug build of PHP is included in advance. Debug builds using GCC and Clang are available, and Valgrind support is enabled. With the Clang build, you can also use MemorySanitizer.

They each have the following binary prefixes. The build toolchains are the same.

- `debug-php`
- `gcc-valgrind-php`
- `clang-msan-php`
- `clang-asan-php`
- `clang-ubsan-php`

For example, the method to test the extension using GCC + Valgrind is as follows:

```
# gcc-valgrind-phpize
# ./configure --with-php-config=$(which gcc-valgrind-php-config)
# TEST_PHP_ARGS="-q -m --show-diff" make -j$(nproc) test
```

#### Can I debug using gdb?

Yes. Build using the debug version of PHP and run as follows:

```
# gdb --args gcc-valgrind-php -dextension=./modules/your_extension_name.so example.php
```

#### Can I develop using something other than Visual Studio Code?

While it's not recommended, it's possible. You can using Docker Compose (or a alternative engine).

### License

PHP License 3.01
